[THEME MUSIC]
>> So in the time we have left,
I'm going to show you a few
images here of the kind of
documentation that we look
at to demonstrate the reality
of these gigantic events.
First, I'm going to show you a
quote from Sir James Hall, one
of the founding
fathers of geology.
He wrote this back in 1815.
"The facts brought forward
in the following paper,
according to my
view of the subject,
clearly indicate the operation
of immense torrents."
Now, he's been looking
at evidence in Europe.
And then we jump forward to the
'90s, and we look at the words
of two of the preeminent
paleoclimatologists who have
been studying-- or
paleohydrologists who have been
studying ancient water flows.
And by the '90s, they were
able to conclude this, which,
of course, has not been
refuted, only confirmed.
Recently identified Pleistocene
flood features in the Eurasian
continent indicate that--
think about this now-- planetary
scale movement of water
has been a major
agent in shaping
the landscape of our planet.
Really, almost sounds
biblical to me, doesn't it?
How about to you?
Planetary scale
movement of water.
I like to quote
from George Catlin.
This is from his book, "The
Last Rambles Amongst the Indians
of the Rocky Mountains
and the Andes."
And here's the quote that
how he concludes his book.
He spent a lifetime
traveling and living
with Indigenous peoples all over
the North and South American
continents.
He says, "of 120
different tribes which
I have visited in North and
South and Central America,
every tribe has related to
me, more or less distinctly,
their traditions of the Deluge,
in which one, or three, or eight
persons were saved above
the waters on the top
of a high mountain; and also,
their peculiar and respective
theories of Creation.
Some of these tribes, living at
the base of the Rocky Mountains,
and in the plains of Venezuela,
and the Pampa Del Sacramento
in South America, make annual
pilgrimages to the fancied
summits where the antediluvian
species were saved in canoes
or otherwise, and, under
the mysterious regulations
of their medicine
or mystery men,
tender their prayers and
sacrifices to the Great Spirit,
to ensure their exemption
from a similar catastrophe."
Now, how is this evidence
been treated by academia?
It's been ignored.
Or, well, there was
missionaries there
who told them the story of
the biblical flood of Noah,
and they just grafted it onto
their own spiritual heritage.
But the problem with that
is that most of these tribes
that he visited, he was
the first white person
to visit these tribes.
"How far these general
traditions of a flood
relate to a universal Deluge,
or to local cataclysms--
of which there have
evidently been one or more,
over portions of the
American continent--
or whether there HAS
BEEN a universal Deluge,
and at what period, it is
difficult to determine.
One thing, however, is certain
that the Indian traditions
everywhere point distinctly
at least to one such event,
and amongst the Central
and Southern tribes,
they as distinctly point
to two such catastrophes,
in which their race
was chiefly destroyed;
and the rocks of their
countries bear evidence yet more
conclusive of the
same calamities,
which probably swept off the
populations of the plains,
and, as their traditions
say, left scattered remnants
on the summits of the
Andes and Rocky Mountains."
Let's keep going on.
I'm just going to show you a few
examples of what has now been
preserved in the landscape.
This is a NASA photograph that
was taken from 500 miles up
of Eastern Washington.
And you see these great dark
scars here on the landscape.
These were water
flows discharging off
the catastrophically
melting ice sheets
to the North that can only be
measured in hundreds of millions
of cubic feet per second.
The Grand Coulee, this
feature right here,
had between 300 and 400
million cubic feet per second.
Now, how do you run your--
how do you wrap your mind
around something like that?
Well, think of it this way.
If you took every continent
and all the flowing water--
every creek, stream, and river--
on every continent
on the planet.
Think of all the great
and mighty rivers,
from the Nile to the Orinoco,
to the Andes, to the Columbia,
to the Mississippi.
All of them--
Eurasia, North America,
South America-- every river,
every flowing water on Earth,
you wouldn't even have 1/10
the volume that
created Grand Coulee.
You can confirm-- if
you do the research,
you can confirm this yourself.
I don't need to
exaggerate anything here.
So what I'm doing, though,
is I am organizing,
with the help of my
colleagues and associates,
we've been organizing tours
and groups to take people out
so that I can teach
them how to read
the landscapes of catastrophe.
And here you can see on
this color variation,
they show up very clearly.
Here is two great scars in
the surface of the Earth.
And here, this quote I think
seems to be relevant to this.
"The waters prevailed
exceedingly upon the earth;
and all the high
mountains were covered."
Now, if you look
carefully on this--
I can't see it too
well up here, hopefully
you can see it better
up on the screen--
there are shorelines right up
to the top of this mountain.
And that shows where the waters
rose up almost to the very top
of the mountain over 1,000 feet
deep, and then drained away.
Here's another example.
If you look carefully,
you'll see horizontal lines.
Those are shorelines.
That's one of the evidence,
one of the signatures
of these gigantic fluvial
events that have been
preserved in the landscape.
They show up very clearly
here because in the spring,
snow melt has defined
the shorelines, which,
in geological lingo,
is called strand lines.
And here you have
current rippled sand.
I took this picture back in
the aftermath of Hurricane Ivan
flooding, which was considered
to be a 100-year flood in North
Georgia.
And you look here, you
can see current ripples.
Now, I've got a
measuring tape here.
You can see the amplitude
is about 3/4 of an inch.
The wavelength is a
couple of 2 to 3 inches.
The water that created
this on the flood
plain, which had not been
submerged for decades,
was 2 feet deep.
Now if you look at this,
this is an aerial photograph
I took over a place called Camas
prairie in western Montana.
And you have a ripple train
there that's 5 to 6 miles long.
And the largest ripples
are 30 to 50 feet high,
and 200 to 300 feet wavelength.
And we can find the strand
lines on the nearest mountains.
And we can see that the water
that passed over this land was
1,400 feet deep.
So try to imagine, if
you will, a rushing,
raging river moving at
40 or 50 miles an hour,
choked with icebergs, and it's 5
to 10 miles wide and 1,400 feet
deep.
Here are a couple of hundred
miles away to the west,
you have a gigantic
gravel boulder bar.
It's 3 miles long.
It's 200 feet thick.
And, again, the same
scale of current ripples.
This was the same
flood which submerged
large portions of four states
and two provinces of Canada.
Now, if there were survivors--
and there were probably a few
by the luck of the draw--
what kind of stories would they
tell about an event like this?
And then in those flood
waters, like I said,
you had thousands of icebergs.
Because simultaneous with
the melting of the ice,
it's breaking up,
it's shattering.
And these icebergs,
chunks of ice
are being swept out by the
raging flood waters discharging
from the ice.
Well, a lot of that--
a lot of those
icebergs have picked up
these gigantic boulders
like this one here.
And if you look at this,
you see that this boulder--
and in the second, I'm going to
put a couple of people in there
for scale.
But you can see
they're all the way
up here to the top of these huge
hills, over thousand feet up.
Now, let's add
some people so you
can get a sense of how
large that boulder is.
Now, how did that
boulder get there?
Well, here was an interesting--
this was from an artist in 1872
who I ran across this, and
I says, well, there it is.
You have the raging floodwaters,
you have the icebergs,
and then you have the cargo of
giant erratic boulders being
carried on the icebergs.
And that is how you
got this, and this.
That is a really big rock.
Now, this is stranded 400 feet
above the modern Columbia River.
And scattered over
thousands of square miles,
you find stuff like this.
Huge boulders littering
the landscape.
And this is the evidence
that these floodwaters
swept over these landscapes.
This is a topographic map of a
gigantic flood eroded feature
called Dry Falls Cataract.
It's 5 miles wide.
The cliffs here in these
alcoves are 400 feet high.
You understand Niagara
Falls is a cataract.
It's very similar.
It has the classical
horseshoe-shaped profile.
Well, if you look at this
aerial, this is one alcove.
That right there
is this second--
you're looking at this
second alcove right here.
Now what I'm going to do
is I'm going to superimpose
Niagara Falls at scale.
So this is 2 and 1/2 times the
height and many times the width.
So we're going to go through
these quickly so that you
can see for yourself some of the
magnitude of the features left
in the landscape.
The erosion rips up bedrock, in
the formation of Grand Coulee.
The bedrock that was
ripped up was scattered
over a thousand square mile.
And this is what you see.
This is the rubble,
literally, of the former world
you're looking at right here.
Now, I'm just showing
you one particular place.
This is now in Northern Idaho.
Sorry, this is Southern Idaho.
And this was a flood
coming up out of Utah.
The carved, the
modern Snake River.
And you can see--
just try to imagine
the power of the water
flows that are transporting
rocks like this.
So we're just going
to go through now.
In these turbulent waters, you
have this happening-- vortexes.
Powerful vortexes, like
tornadoes in water.
They pick up debris.
And they can literally drill,
in a few hours or a few days,
deep holes into bedrock.
This is, I'm in the
bottom of a pothole.
Here, it's actually
80 feet deep,
but it's got 25 feet of sediment
accumulated in the bottom.
It's like 15 feet wide.
I'm standing in the bottom.
This is Graham Hancock
looking over the rim.
So this was one of the last
places I brought Graham to show
him when he was researching
"Magicians of the Gods."
But this, again,
is just testimony
to the-- mute testimony to
the extremely inconceivable
powerful flows.
Now, this is on the border
of Minnesota and Wisconsin.
We could go over the
whole United States,
Canada, Northwestern Europe.
In fact, there's not
a continent on Earth
that doesn't have similar
kinds of evidence.
Now, I'm not necessarily saying
it's from the same water flow.
This is from upper
New York State.
This is at the south
end of the Finger Lakes.
And you can see there
was a gorge here
that was cut by water flows.
And right there at the
bottom of the gorge
is a huge circular deep pothole.
And the 6 inches to 1 foot
of water flowing there now
did not create that pothole.
That's the takeaway.
This is up in the
Southern Appalachians.
And you can see that there are
huge rounded boulders all strewn
throughout the hollows of
the southern Appalachians.
And, again, as it says
here, massive displaced
boulders at Bonas Defeat, in
the headwaters of the Tuckasegee
River, North Carolina.
And all of these hollows
show this kind of evidence.
Here's a waterfall.
And let me assure
you that feature
with the massive
undercutting there was not
formed by the modern waterfall.
And here is just a cross-section
to give you an idea.
This could be, I
think I used Atlanta,
but it could be-- it could be
Las Vegas, it could be any city.
This is a typical flow through
some of the western mountain
valleys.
And what I did there
was I put the skyline
of a major urban city.
Like I said, this
could be Las Vegas.
It could be any major city.
It could be Washington,
DC, it could be Atlanta.
I think used Atlanta,
and it's to scale.
And I think this
might be Denver.
I think I did a
presentation in Denver.
And there you can see the depth
of some of these water flows.
So ask yourself-- if
a water flow like this
came across any urban
landscape, what would be left?
Not a damn thing.
This is why archaeologists
are finding--
this is the thing.
Well, where's the pottery?
Where's the evidence.
Well, I'm going to speed
through some of this.
This is my colleague
and friend, Brad.
He's standing up here.
This is in-- this is in New
Mexico, in the Jemez River.
And this is a rounded
8-foot boulder.
And you walk up miles up
this little river choked
with these gigantic boulders.
He's standing up here.
I don't know if you can see him.
Cumberland River in Kentucky.
Again, gigantic boulders.
And here, this is spectacular.
If you look at this,
this is Lake Superior,
the biggest of the Great Lakes.
And you can see here
very clearly defined
in this digital elevation
model, the gigantic flows
of these catastrophically
melting ice sheets.
You can see the flow parted
right here and pretty much
created the whole delta now
that New Orleans is built upon.
And this is in Siberia.
And we could spend hours going
through the evidence showing
that these events were global.
I'm going to just really
speed through some of this
so you can just--
I just want you to
take away from this--
because the evidence
is accumulating
that the cosmic factor has been
crucial to this whole phenomena.
I mean, if we look at--
if we look at the moon, if
we look at the inner planets,
what do we see?
The most ubiquitous
surface feature
is impact cratering,
impact scars, astro beams.
So I do a whole lecture on
this and it's available online.
I would highly recommend that
you looked at it, study it.
I'm just going to go
through some of these
so you can get an idea.
Upheaval Dome, Utah.
We've led expeditions
to this feature.
6 miles in diameter.
The explosive energy of that,
6,000 mega tons are the same
as 400,000 Hiroshima bombs.
We can go through here.
This is in Chad.
10.2 miles, explosive
energy, 36,000 megatons,
2.4 million Hiroshimas.
Now you want to talk about
where could the energy come from
to trigger these
kinds of things.
I'll tell you where it is.
We are part of a
cosmic ecosystem.
That is one of the lessons you
need to take away from this.
And we need to start
thinking cosmically.
We need to start thinking that
we are part of a much grander,
larger system.
And like our ancestors
understood, I think clearly.
Tunguska, I'm sure all of
you have heard of Tunguska
and the event there.
That was the equivalent of a 15
megaton hydrogen bomb explosion,
which was the largest
nuclear bomb ever tested
by the United States.
And then there was, some
of you will remember
the String of Pearls, when
Shoemaker/Levy 9 plummeted
into Jupiter back in 1994.
And there's evidence now that
these are important types
of impact events.
We shall be led to
propose that over
and above the sporadic
impacts already discussed,
there may have been brief
periods within historic times
of greatly increased
Tunguska-like bombardment.
Now, this is not to
cause us to despair,
but it's like we
need to understand
that these are forces
of nature to which we
are vulnerable at present.
But very shortly, with awareness
of this and the motivation,
we don't have to be
vulnerable anymore.
And I wish we had
more time because I
would love to go through
this, but I'm just
going to very briefly.
This is what's been going
on while the majority
of the population has not
been paying attention.
So just look at the headlines
as we go through here.
See?
And it goes on and on and on.
These are all separate events
that I've been keeping track of
and cataloging for a
quarter of a century now.
But I want to end with this.
Because right now,
we're on the brink
of a new industrial landscape.
And it's a recovery
of an ancient science.
And it's being tested
right now as we speak.
And I have been privy
to this knowledge,
this information for eight years
now and been sitting on it.
And finally, now I'm
able, in a position.
Since the reveal on
Joe Rogan one year
ago this month, things
have gone completely crazy.
And this new technology, which
is a recovery, like I said,
it's based on plasma and
the control of plasma.
And these are
examples of plasma.
And when we have solar
storms that wipe out things,
those are gigantic
plasma blobs that
are being thrown off the sun.
But plasmas have an affinity
for certain geometrical
relationships.
So this is called a
Ranque-Hilsch vortex tube.
And it's a way--
it's an amazing thing that
nobody really understands
how it works, but it works.
And it's being
used in industry--
refrigeration, air
conditioning, nuclear reactors.
And what it does is you feed
a compressed air at room
temperature into this swirl
chamber at high rates of speed
and it sets up a vortex.
And one vortex will travel
down towards the end.
And as it does, it
gets hotter and hotter.
And then this cone
at the end here,
the control valve separates
the hot and the cold.
The hot air comes out
one end, the cold air
is reversed and goes in another
vortex in the opposite--
in the opposite direction.
So you have clockwise
and counterclockwise.
It gets colder as
it goes down, and is
discharged at the other end.
And as it says here, the
differences has been--
the hot temperature can reach
392 degrees Fahrenheit coming
out.
This can reach minus 50 degrees.
So that's over 400 degrees.
Now, this is just room
temperature being fed in.
And it's separated by
almost 400 degrees.
Here's another depiction of it.
You can look this
up online, study it.
The principle of a
thunderstorm is in action here.
Because what happens
during a thunderstorm?
You have a cold air mass,
a hot air mass, they meet,
that generates lightning,
which is plasma.
So this is a system
now that's been adapted
in order to generate plasmas.
And it turns out that there is a
certain geometrical arrangement
of materials that
can duplicate what's
going on in that vortex tube,
but with plasmas instead
of normal air.
This thing has been called
a thunderstorm generator.
It's been tested now in
about six laboratories.
It is actually being implemented
on a substation now outside
of London.
This shows what's
happening there
with the introduction
of the plasmas that
set up an extremely
rapid whirling
vortex of plasma energy.
And here is a thing called
a thunderstorm generator.
It's being constructed
in a laboratory here.
It's now being implemented.
It's being installed on a 300
kilowatt Perkins generator
on a substation
outside of London.
It feeds into the
London power grid.
And this is now contributing
to the distribution of power
in London.
This is real.
It is not some
eccentric tinkerer
in the garage making
grandiose claims.
This is real.
It has now been
tested in Zurich.
It's been tested in a
major industrial laboratory
in North Carolina.
It's been tested at the Tesla
tech conference in New Mexico.
And it's been tested in London,
and is now being implemented.
The interesting
thing about this,
if we had time to get into
it, I would love to show you.
And I'm going to be
presenting more and more
about this technology.
Here's the most
interesting thing about it.
This is not a new discovery.
It's a rediscovery.
And I can make a
very strong case
that the ancient peoples knew
about how to use geometry
to control the flow of plasmas.
And here's the last
thing we'll look at.
This particular,
this was at a testing
I was present at and was
able to witness myself
with high-tier
scientists, engineers,
and industrial professionals
using equipment
like gas analyzers and
mass spectrometers.
We had two generators set up.
One was the control
generator, the other
was the one that had
the technology attached
to it implemented.
Both of them were turned
on, calibrated to have
precisely the same emissions.
So what you see when
you look at the red here
is that you see right here
is your carbon dioxide.
It was emitting 9.3% carbon
dioxide, 5.48% carbon monoxide,
4.66% oxygen, 199 parts per
million of other hydrocarbons,
and 27 parts per million
of nitrogen oxides.
OK, so now this generator
is sitting there.
It's run, it's warmed up.
This is what it's emitting.
Now the technology is turned
on, and within two minutes,
carbon dioxide has gone
to zero, carbon monoxide
has gone to zero,
hydrocarbons have
gone from 199 to 58
parts per million,
nitrogen oxide
from 27 to 4 parts.
Most interestingly, oxygen
has gone up from 20 point up
to 20.97%, which happens to be--
And so what's
happening here is what
was coming out of
the exhaust has now
been replaced by pure air
with the most optimum 20.9%
concentration of
oxygen that you would
find if you were
breathing in mountain
air in a pristine environment
with no pollution.
What's coming out of
there is pure air.
So I want you guys to take what
I've been able to present here.
I'll be having many links that
you can start doing the research
and learn about
this because we're
taking the past, the
present, and the future,
and we're bringing
them together.
And I think we've created the
potential for a completely--
for a future that we
can barely even begin
to visualize the potential of.
But we are at a crossroads.
[APPLAUSE]
Thanks.
[THEME MUSIC]